## Navigation and Encoding

This series of tasks will take you through a series of challenges, slowly 
building your knowledge of the linux terminal and testing your knowledge of
a variety of encoding/encrypting methods.

### General notes

All challenges are generated at the point of being called by the user. Answers are generated by
randomly pulling five words from a wordlist and running these through a series of different
encoding/encryption methods. 

In cases where *"Flag:"* is used to prefix the word string *"Flag:"* 
should not be included in the answer. This has been included to aid 
with finding the flag in a large file.

### Tips and tricks
In true CTF fashion hints are littered throughout the challenges. If it has been included, it is there to help!

The online [CyberChef](https://gchq.github.io/CyberChef/) tool produced by GCHQ is a huge help when it comes 
to solving these tasks. Not all of the tasks can be completed with this tool alone, pen and paper will help 
some of them!


###Emperor
This challenge forms the introduction to the challenges. It combines some basic terminal skills 
with some classical ciphers to ease users into the challenges.

####Task
Locate the generated file, decode the cipher text and submit the answer.

####Solution
1. Navigate to the directory as advised by the server
2. Open the file to view the cipher text
3. Perform a Caesars' box (transposition) cipher
4. Perform a Caesars' shift of -13 to get the original text
5. Submit the 5 words to the server


###Ring Ring
This challenge has some additional complexity, requiring resources not contained within the CyberChef tool, 
as well as some creative interpretation of supplied information!

####Task
Locate the generated file, decode the cipher text and submit the answer.

####Solution
1. Navigate to the output directory used in the previous task.
2. As prompted by the server message, list hidden files
3. Open the file and view the cipher text
4. Convert from binary to decimal values
5. Now convert the binary into imaginary key-presses used for old SMS messages. For example, "2 2 2" is used for a "C" character. "0" is used as a space as well as to show when one letter finishes and the next starts.
6. Submit the answer to the server


###Feel The Challenge
This task uses a commonly found but possibly seldom known format that may leave some users scratching their heads!

####Task
Decode the cipher text and submit the answer.

####Solution
1. Read the symbols from the server
2. Identify the symbols as 6 dot Braille patterns
3. Convert them to text
4. Submit the answer to the server


###Fibres
This task requires the user to do a bit more googling based on subtle clues given in server messages. 
It also relies on the user either doing some pen and paper work or coding a solution.
####Task
Locate the generated file, decode the cipher text and submit the answer.

####Solution
1. Navigate to the file in the output folder
2. Open the file to see two streams of binary values
3. Use the optical de-interleaver clue to discover that one string is all the odd bits and the other is all the evens
4. Reconstruct the original message
5. Convert from binary to text
6. Submit the answer to the server

###Telegram
This final task will require the user to do a more complex command to access the flag but the reward is well worth it!
####Task
Locate the generated file, decode the cipher text and submit the answer.

####Solution
1. Locate the file in the output directory
2. Untar the file using the terminal
3. View the file contents
4. Convert from morse code
5. Convert from binary
6. Bask in the glorious reward
7. Submit the answer to the server

###Author
Matthew B